refactor: refund a portion of remaining unused tokens to user (#3734)
zeta-chain/node: docs/zetacore/managment_for_unused_gas_fee.md

# Management for Unused Gas Fee

## Overview

This document explains how gas fees are managed when processing outbound transactions on connected chains, particularly focusing on how differences between estimated and actual gas usage are handled.
The Gas fee is always paid in the Gas ZRC20 token of the connected chain ,irrespective of coin type.

## Gas Fee Scenarios

When processing outbound transactions, there are two possible scenarios regarding gas fees:

> 1. **User Overpays** (Common)

Reviewer: - They overpay because the entire gas limit is consumed.
- They might underpay because the gas price might be increased by the protocol through the gas stability mechanism

    - Users often overpay gas fees to ensure transactions are processed
    - EVM chains automatically refund unused gas to the caller (TSS address)
    - This creates an opportunity to return a portion of these funds to users

2. **User Underpays**
    - Gas prices may increase after transaction submission
    - In these cases, the stability pool covers the difference
    - No refund mechanism applies in underpayment scenarios

## Refund Mechanism for Overpayments

For overpayment scenarios, we implement the following refund logic:

### Fee Tracking

> - We track the initial gas fee paid by the user when initiating the transaction.This does not include the Protocol Fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We track the initial gas fee paid by the user when initiating the transaction. This does not include the Protocol Fee.
```

- When an outbound transaction completes (regardless of status), we calculate the actual fee used:
  ```
  actualFee = receipt.GasUsed * transaction.GasPrice()
  ```

### Difference in Fee Calculation

- The difference in fee is calculated as:
  ```
  totalRemainingFees = userGasFeePaid - actualFee
  ```
- We then take 95% of this amount for further calculations:
  ```
  remainingFees = 95% of totalRemainingFees
  ```
- We intentionally use only 95% of the unused fee to avoid any potential over-minting:
    - The 5% of tokens that are not minted back are retained by the TSS address
    - This creates a safety buffer since we burn the total amount of tokens when initiating the transaction, which creates a deficit

### Fee Distribution

The remaining fees are distributed as follows:

1. **Stability Pool Allocation**

>     - For non-zEVM chains or invalid addresses: 100% of this amount goes to the stability pool

Reviewer: Non-EVM chain you mean? 
We don't calculate remaining fees for non EVM chain for now? We should create issue to track this.

>     - For non-zEVM chains or invalid addresses: 100% of this amount goes to the stability pool

Reviewer: What does invalid address mean?

Author: I was referefng this check 
```
	if chains.IsZetaChain(cctx.InboundParams.SenderChainId, k.GetAuthorityKeeper().GetAdditionalChainList(ctx)) &&
		ethcommon.IsHexAddress(cctx.InboundParams.Sender) 
```
if the sender address is invalid , we dont refund , but its more of an implemtation detail , I think ill just remove this fromthe docs

>     - For zEVM chains with valid addresses: A configurable percentage (from chain parameters) goes to the stability pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For EVM chains with valid addresses: A configurable percentage (from chain parameters) goes to the stability pool
```

>     - For zEVM chains with valid addresses: A configurable percentage (from chain parameters) goes to the stability pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For zEVM chains with valid addresses: A configurable percentage (defined in the chain params) goes to the stability pool
```

2. **User Refund**

>     - For zEVM chains with valid addresses: The remaining amount after stability pool allocation is refunded to the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For EVM chains with valid addresses: The remaining amount after stability pool allocation is refunded to the user
```
